feat(math): implement Mersenne-31 Prime Field (#335)
kroma-network/tachyon: docs/how_to_contribute/math/how_to_add_prime_field.md

Reviewer: For the code, I think it would be nice to note certain lines/points that the user has to change instead of showing an example. When I just look at the example, I don't see completely clearly what I have to change myself for a new prime field.

Reviewer: I'm not too sure how to go about this, but I include an example later... I would actually prefer seeing a skeleton file sample, with possible optional portions commented out, and names are parts to change as [INSERT_NAME_HERE] or [PRIME_FIELD_HERE] + a reference to maresenne-31 as an example instead.

Reviewer: BTW in general, I would recommend not using "you" in these kind of docs and just write in an imperative-type form.

Reviewer: Is "Prime Field" supposed to be capitalized? :thinking:

Author: Is it awkward? I just wanted to emphasize them

# How to add Prime Field

Follow this guide to add a new Prime Field.

_Note_: We have our own development conventions. Please read the [conventions docs](/docs/how_to_contribute/conventions.md) before contributing.

## 1. Add `BUILD.bazel` file

Begin by creating a directory named `<new_prime_field>_prime` in `/tachyon/math/finite_field/`. Add a `BUILD.bazel` into this directory. Note that once parameters are added to `BUILD.bazel`, Bazel will automatically generate the Prime Field code based on these parameters.

Choose among `generate_prime_fields()`, `generate_fft_prime_fields()`, or `generate_large_fft_prime_fields()` for code generation, depending on the Prime Field type. For more information, refer to the [`prime_field_generator`](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/build_defs.bzl).

> Additionally, it can be optimized using `polygon_zkevm_backend`. To utilize this, include `<field_type>_fail.h` and `<field_type>_fail.cc`.

Reviewer: Don't use "it"... What is it in this context?

    "generate_fft_prime_fields",
)

package(default_visibility = ["//visibility:public"])

string_flag(
    name = "fr_" + SUBGROUP_GENERATOR,
    build_setting_default = "{subgroup_generator}", # input Subgroup generator value
)

generate_fft_prime_fields(
    name = "new_prime_field", # FIX
    class_name = "NewPrimeField", # FIX
    hdr_include_override = """#if defined(TACHYON_POLYGON_ZKEVM_BACKEND)
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/<new_prime_field>_prime/prime_field_<new_prime_field>.h" # FIX
#include "tachyon/build/build_config.h"
#else
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/prime_field.h"
#endif  // defined(TACHYON_POLYGON_ZKEVM_BACKEND)""",
    modulus = "{moulus_value}", # input modulus value
    namespace = "tachyon::math",
    special_prime_override = """#if defined(TACHYON_POLYGON_ZKEVM_BACKEND)
#if ARCH_CPU_X86_64
  constexpr static bool kIsSpecialPrime = true;
  constexpr static bool kIsNewPrimeField = true; # FIX
#else
  #error Polygon NewPrimeField backend is only supported on x86_64 platform.
#endif
#else
  constexpr static bool kIsSpecialPrime = false;
#endif""",
    subgroup_generator = ":fr_" + SUBGROUP_GENERATOR,
    deps = if_polygon_zkevm_backend([

>         ":prime_field_<new_prime_field>", # FIX

Reviewer 2: what is the "FIX"?

Reviewer: supposed to be an indication of lines you should change :thinking: maybe should think of a better way to do this hmm...

Author: I just added a comment to notice users that "this line should be changed as your prime field name".

Reviewer: hmm maybe `TODO: change as needed` might be better :thinking:

Author: I think it can be just removed cuz I abstracted the name like <new_prime_field>

Reviewer: Hmm i think it would be better with a comment of some sort to help devs sort through what they have to do more easily.

        "//tachyon/build:build_config",
    ]),
)

tachyon_cc_library(
    name = "fr_fail",
    srcs = if_polygon_zkevm_backend(["fr_fail.cc"]),
    hdrs = ["fr_fail.h"],
    deps = ["//tachyon/base:logging"],
)

tachyon_cc_library(
    name = "prime_field_<new_prime_field>", 
    hdrs = ["prime_field_<new_prime_field>.h"],
    defines = ["TACHYON_POLYGON_ZKEVM_BACKEND"],
    deps = [
        "//tachyon/math/base/gmp:gmp_util",
        "//tachyon/math/finite_fields:prime_field_base",
    ] + if_polygon_zkevm_backend([
        ":fr_fail",
        "@polygon_zkevm_zkevm_prover//:fr",
    ]),
)
```

Next, add `<field_type>_fail.h` and `<field_type>_fail.cc` if needed.

Since this is just an example, it may be implemented differently depending on the type of Prime Field.

> ## 2. Add Header file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Add header file
```

Next, implement the logic for the new Prime Field in a header file named `prime_field_<prime_field_name>.h`. The code will then be generated in `bazel-bin/tachyon/math/finite_fields/<new_prime_field_dir>/<prime_field_name>.h`.

> Refer to the following codes for implementation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the following files as references:
```

# How to add Prime Field

If you want to add new Prime Field, follow this guide.

_Note_: We have our own development conventions. Please read the [conventions docs](/docs/how_to_contribute/conventions.md) before contributing.

## 1. Add `BUILD.bazel` file

> Begin by creating a directory named `<prime_field_name>_prime` within `/tachyon/math/finite_field/`, and then add a `BUILD.bazel` file to it. After you have added parameters to your `BUILD.bazel`, Bazel will automatically generate the Prime Field code based on these parameters.

Reviewer: isn't it that after the parameters are added and you build, Bazel auto generates it?
```suggestion
Begin by creating a directory named `<prime_field_name>_prime` in `/tachyon/math/finite_field/`. Add a `BUILD.bazel` into this directory. Note that once parameters are added to `BUILD.bazel`, Bazel will automatically generate the Prime Field code based on these parameters.
```

Reviewer: ^^wanted to ask this question oops "isn't it that after the parameters are added and you build, Bazel auto generates it?"

You must choose among `generate_prime_fields()`, `generate_fft_prime_fields()`, or `generate_large_fft_prime_fields()` for code generation, depending on your Prime Field type. For more information, refer to the [`prime_field_generator`](/tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator/build_defs.bzl).

> Additionally, you can optimize using polygon_zkevm_backend. To utilize this, include `<field_type>_fail.h` and `<field_type>_fail.cc`.

Reviewer: Maybe you should show more distinctly how using/not using polygon_zkevm_backend works, since it seems optional, and the marsenne-31 example shows only with it.

For instance, to implement the Mersenne-31 Prime Field, create a directory (`/tachyon/math/finite_field/mersenne_31_prime`) and add a `BUILD.bazel` file as shown below:

```bazel
# /tachyon/math/finite_field/mersenne_31_prime/BUILD.bazel

load("@bazel_skylib//rules:common_settings.bzl", "string_flag")
load("//bazel:tachyon.bzl", "if_polygon_zkevm_backend")
load("//bazel:tachyon_cc.bzl", "tachyon_cc_library")
load(
    "//tachyon/math/finite_fields/generator/prime_field_generator:build_defs.bzl",
    "SUBGROUP_GENERATOR",
    "generate_fft_prime_fields",
)

package(default_visibility = ["//visibility:public"])

string_flag(
    name = "fr_" + SUBGROUP_GENERATOR,
    build_setting_default = "7",
)

generate_fft_prime_fields(

>     name = "mersenne_31",
>     class_name = "Mersenne31",

Reviewer: Example (for above comment)
```suggestion
    name = "mersenne_31", // FIX
    class_name = "Mersenne31", // FIX
```

    defines = ["TACHYON_POLYGON_ZKEVM_BACKEND"],
    deps = [
        "//tachyon/math/base/gmp:gmp_util",
        "//tachyon/math/finite_fields:prime_field_base",
    ] + if_polygon_zkevm_backend([
        ":fr_fail",
        "@polygon_zkevm_zkevm_prover//:fr",
    ]),
)
```

Next, add `fr_fail.h` and `fr_fail.cc` as follows:

```cpp
// /tachyon/math/finite_field/mersenne_31_prime/fr_fail.h

#ifndef TACHYON_MATH_FINITE_FIELDS_MERSENNE_31_PRIME_FR_FAIL_H_
#define TACHYON_MATH_FINITE_FIELDS_MERSENNE_31_PRIME_FR_FAIL_H_

extern "C" void Fr_fail();

#endif  // TACHYON_MATH_FINITE_FIELDS_MERSENNE_31_PRIME_FR_FAIL_H_

```

```cpp
// /tachyon/math/finite_field/mersenne_31_prime/fr_fail.cc

#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/mersenne_31_prime/fr_fail.h"

#include "tachyon/base/logging.h"

void Fr_fail() { NOTREACHED(); }

```

## 2. Add Header file

Next, implement the logic for your Prime Field in a header file named `prime_field_<prime_field_name>.h`. Your code will then be generated in `bazel-bin/tachyon/math/finite_fields/<your_prime_field_dir>/<prime_field_name>.h`.

For example, to implement logic for the Mersenne-31 Prime Field, add `prime_field_mersenne_31.h` as follows:

> ```cpp

Reviewer: I think a link to the file might be better and cleaner

    PrimeField ret;
    Fr_rawSub(ret.value_.limbs, value_.limbs, other.value_.limbs);
    *this = ret;
    return *this;
  }

  constexpr PrimeField& NegInPlace() {
    PrimeField ret;
    Fr_rawNeg(ret.value_.limbs, value_.limbs);
    *this = ret;
    return *this;
  }

  // TODO(chokobole): Support bigendian.
  // MultiplicativeSemigroup methods
  constexpr PrimeField& MulInPlace(const PrimeField& other) {
    PrimeField ret;
    Fr_rawMMul(ret.value_.limbs, value_.limbs, other.value_.limbs);
    *this = ret;
    return *this;
  }

  constexpr PrimeField& SquareInPlace() {
    PrimeField ret;
    Fr_rawMSquare(ret.value_.limbs, value_.limbs);
    *this = ret;
    return *this;
  }

  // MultiplicativeGroup methods
  PrimeField& DivInPlace(const PrimeField& other) {
    return MulInPlace(other.Inverse());
  }

  constexpr PrimeField& InverseInPlace() {
    value_ = value_.template MontgomeryInverse<Config::kModulusHasSpareBit>(
        Config::kModulus, Config::kMontgomeryR2);
    return *this;
  }

 private:
  BigInt<N> value_;
};

}  // namespace tachyon::math

#endif  // TACHYON_MATH_FINITE_FIELDS_MERSENNE_31_PRIME_PRIME_FIELD_MERSENNE_31_H_

```

## 3. Add unit test

> Finally, ensure your Prime Field works well by incorporating it into the `prime_field_generator_unittest.cc`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, ensure your Prime Field works well by incorporating it into `prime_field_generator_unittest.cc` at the two points shown below.
```

```cpp
#include "gtest/gtest.h"

> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/bls12/bls12_381/fq.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/bls12/bls12_381/fr.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/bn/bn254/fq.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/bn/bn254/fr.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/secp/secp256k1/fq.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/elliptic_curves/secp/secp256k1/fr.h"
> #include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/goldilocks_prime/goldilocks.h"
> // Include the generated code. 
> #include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/mersenne_31_prime/mersenne_31.h"
> 
> namespace tachyon::math {
> 
> namespace {
> template <typename PrimeField>
> class PrimeFieldGeneratorTest : public testing::Test {
>  public:
>   static void SetUpTestSuite() { PrimeField::Init(); }
> };
> 
> }  // namespace
> 
> // Add the new Prime Field type to test
> using PrimeFieldTypes =
>     testing::Types<bls12_381::Fq, bls12_381::Fr, bn254::Fq, bn254::Fr,
>                    secp256k1::Fr, secp256k1::Fq, Goldilocks, Mersenne31>;
> 
> TYPED_TEST_SUITE(PrimeFieldGeneratorTest, PrimeFieldTypes);
> 
> TYPED_TEST(PrimeFieldGeneratorTest, FromString) {
>   using PrimeField = TypeParam;
>   EXPECT_EQ(PrimeField::FromDecString("3"), PrimeField(3));
>   EXPECT_EQ(PrimeField::FromHexString("0x3"), PrimeField(3));
> }
> 
> TYPED_TEST(PrimeFieldGeneratorTest, ToString) {
>   using PrimeField = TypeParam;
>   PrimeField f(3);
> 
>   EXPECT_EQ(f.ToString(), "3");
>   EXPECT_EQ(f.ToHexString(), "0x3");
> }
> 
> TYPED_TEST(PrimeFieldGeneratorTest, Zero) {
>   using PrimeField = TypeParam;
>   EXPECT_TRUE(PrimeField::Zero().IsZero());
>   EXPECT_FALSE(PrimeField::One().IsZero());
> }
> 
> TYPED_TEST(PrimeFieldGeneratorTest, One) {
>   using PrimeField = TypeParam;
>   EXPECT_TRUE(PrimeField::One().IsOne());
>   EXPECT_FALSE(PrimeField::Zero().IsOne());
>   EXPECT_EQ(PrimeField::Config::kOne, PrimeField(1).ToMontgomery());
> }
> 
> // More tests ...
> 
> }  // namespace tachyon::math
> 
> ```

Reviewer: something along these lines? I think including a large part of the file is not really needed...
```suggestion
```cpp
// prime_field_generator_unittest.cc
...
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/goldilocks_prime/goldilocks.h"
#include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/mersenne_31_prime/mersenne_31.h"
// ADD NEW PRIME FIELD HEADER FILE HERE
// #include "tachyon/math/finite_fields/..."
...
// ADD NEW PRIME FIELD NAME HERE
using PrimeFieldTypes =
    testing::Types<bls12_381::Fq, bls12_381::Fr, bn254::Fq, bn254::Fr,
                   secp256k1::Fr, secp256k1::Fq, Goldilocks, Mersenne31 /*, NEW PRIME FIELD*/>;
...
```
